So we've seen that Svelte
components can contain any HTML,
valid HTML is already valid Svelte.
But on top of that, Svelte provides
a number of what we call special elements.
The first of these that we're
gonna look at is svelte:self.
And this is a way that a component
can contain itself recursively.
It's really useful for
things like tree views.
So here, we have a tree structure,
we have folders containing files,
and folders containing other folders.
And we want to render
this tree into our app.
So we're gonna change our folder.svelte,
What we wanna be able to do
is just type in folder and
then pass in the information like that.
But that's not gonna work because this
component doesn't have a reference
to anything called folder.
Instead, we need to reference svelte:self,
Like so.
And now we have a tree view that
represents the data structure shown here.
We also have a svelte:component element,
which allows you to use
dynamic components.
So at the moment, we have a select
drop-down that is bound to these RedThing,
GreenThing, and BlueThing components.
But it'd be a lot nicer if we could
just have a single thing that changed
the value of the component dynamically,
so let's get rid of all that.
And we use the special this prop,
And that behaves exactly
the same way as it did before.
If this is a null value,
then it just won't render anything at all.
In the same way that we can add
event listeners to DOM elements,
we can add event listeners to
the window object with svelte:window.
So here,
I'm gonna add the svelte:window, and
then add a keydown handler,
Which has been defined here.
Hang on a minute, there's already
a svelte:window at the beginning of
the tutorial, just gonna get rid of that.
And so now if I focus this window,
that keydown handler is gonna get called
whenever the window
receives a keydown event.
And just like with DOM events, we can use
modifiers like once, prevent default,
and so on.
We can also add bindings to the window.
In this component, we have a bunch
of images from the Firewatch game.
This is a nice little parallax effect
that they have on their homepage.
And I'm gonna bind the scroll value
of the window to some local state.
So we have this y value
which is uninitialized, and
we're using that in in our markup.
So we're using it to determine the
transform of each of the images that form
our parallax layers.
And we're also using it here,
inside this span style,
and we're using it inside some text.
So we're gonna bind the value of
the window's scrollY value
to our local y variable.
And now, as I interact with this, we get
this nice beautiful parallax motion.
There's a few different bindings
that we have access to.
As well as the scrollY value,
we have scrollX, and
we have innerWidth, innerHeight,
outerWidth, outerHeight.
And the online binding, which is
an alias to window.navigator.online,
which is really useful for indicating that
the reason that your app isn't receiving
any data is because the app
is currently offline.
Just like svelte:window we have
a svelte:body special element that
allows you to listen for
events that fire on document body.
It's particularly useful for
the mouseenter and mouseleave events,
which don't fire on window.
So gonna find the svelte:body tag here,
and add the mouseenter and
mouseleave handlers that
have been defined up here.
On.mouseenter=handleMouseenter.
On.mouseleave=handleMouseleave.
And now when we move our
mouse into the window,
a little cat appears, isn't that nice?
Okay, the svelte:head element
allows us to inject content into
the head of the document.
Normally, obviously, all of your
content is gonna go in the body, but
sometimes you need to do things like
add a stylesheet, we can do that here.
And we can change the document title and
other things like that inside
the svelte:head element.
And then finally, we have a svelte:options
element, which allows you to specify
options that are used by the compiler
to control the output of the component.
Now we're gonna use the immutable
option as our example.
This is an app containing
a bunch of todos.
And what you'll notice is that,
anytime we toggle any of the todos,
all of the todos get re-rendered.
And we can see that because we have this
afterUpdate flash function that runs.
afterUpdate runs whenever
the component receives any new state.
And in an ideal world,
that wouldn't be running when
we change a todo that doesn't
affect a particular component.
And so we can optimize this by telling
this todo component that it should expect
immutable data.
Which is to say that if we're
gonna give it a new todo,
then it's gonna be an entirely new object,
we're not mutating anything.
So if we add a svelte:options,
Element to our todo.svelte,
Then now when we toggle these todos,
only the one that we're actually
toggling is receiving that flash.
Because the other todos,
they're completely unaffected,
their data hasn't changed.
And here's a list of all of the other
things that you can use with
svelte:options, some of it
relating to web components.